---
layout: inner
title: Getting Started Tutorial 2.x
lead_text: ''
permalink: /tutorial/
---

## Intro
Before you get started you might want to check out our high level introductions:

- [What is it?](../understanding/concepts.md)
- [How does it work?](../understanding/how.md)

## Building an Online Shopping Hub
This tutorial will walk you through setting up a very simple hub for harmonizing online shopping data.

The story is:

> Our company sells board games and board game accessories. We have been tasked with creating a Data Hub on top of MarkLogic. We must load all of our Product and Order data into MarkLogic and harmonize it for use in a new application. Our approach will be broken down into five main steps.

1. Load Product data As-Is
1. Harmonize Product data
1. Load Order data As-Is
1. Harmonize Order data
1. Serve the data to downstream clients

### In a Hurry?
The finished version of this tutorial is available for you to download and play with. [Finished Online Shopping Hub Example](https://github.com/marklogic-community/marklogic-data-hub/tree/develop/examples/online-store){:target="_blank"}

### QuickStart
This tutorial uses QuickStart, a simple User Interface that you can run locally to start working with the Data Hub Framework quickly. With QuickStart you will have a working hub in a matter of minutes. No need to worry about deployment strategies or configuration details. Simply run the QuickStart war (java web archive) and point it at your MarkLogic installation. _Quickstart is a devops tool. It is meant to be run on your development machine to aid you in quickly deploying your hub._

## Prerequisites

Before you can run the hub, you will need to have some some software installed.

- [Oracle's Java 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) _(We have not tested with OpenJDK)_{:.smaller}
- [MarkLogic 9](https://developer.marklogic.com/products) _(Installed and initialized)_{:.smaller}
- A Modern Browser. _(Chrome or FireFox work best. Use IE at your own risk.)_{:.smaller}

## Table of Contents
1. [Install the Data Hub Framework](install.md)
1. Loading Products
   1. [Create the Product Entity](./create-product-entity.md)
   1. [Create the Product Input Flow](./create-product-input-flow.md)
   1. [Load the Product Data As-Is](./load-products-as-is.md)
1. Harmonizing Products
   1. [Browse and Understand the Product Data](./browse-understand-product-data.md)
   1. [Modeling the Product Entity](./modeling-product-entity.md)
   1. [Harmonizing the Product Data](./harmonizing-product-data.md)
1. Loading Orders
   1. [Create the Order Entity](./create-order-entity.md)
   1. [Create the Order Input Flow](./create-order-input-flow.md)
   1. [Load the Orders As-Is](./load-orders-as-is.md)
1. Harmonizing Orders
   1. [Modeling the Order Entity](./modeling-order-entity.md)
   1. [Harmonizing the Order Data](./harmonizing-order-data.md)
1. [Serve the Data Out of MarkLogic](./serve-data.md)
1. [Wrapping Up](./wrapping-up.md)
